[Post] Accessing hardware devices on the web (#4472)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/access-devices/index.md

---
title: Accessing hardware devices on the web
subhead: |
  Pick the appropriate API to communicate with a hardware device of your choice.
description: |
  This article helps Web developers pick the right hardware API based on a given device.
authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
date: 2021-01-19
updated: 2021-01-19

> hero: hero.jpg

Author: Me too ;)

thumbnail: thumbnail.jpg
alt: A woman sitting in front of a wooden desk photo.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - devices
---

My goal is to help you, web developer, pick the appropriate API to communicate
with a hardware device of your choice (e.g., a webcam, a microphone, a mouse, a
keyboard, a stylus, an NFC tag, a Bluetooth device, or an exotic hardware
device).

There are many APIs to choose from. By answering a few questions on this device, you
should find out the API to use and have some documentation to get started

> accessing this device.

Author: I like this intro 👍

> ## 1. Do you want to access video stream from this device? {: #video }

Author: True. We'll think of other ways to break this down.

If so, use [`MediaDevices.getUserMedia()`] to get a live video stream from this
device and learn about [capturing video]. You can also [control the camera's
pan, tilt, and zoom], and other camera settings such as [brightness and
contrast], and even [take still images].

## 2. Do you want to access audio streams from this device? {: #audio }

If so, use [`MediaDevices.getUserMedia()`] to get a live audio stream from this
device and learn about [capturing audio]. You can also use [Web Audio] to add
effects to audio, create audio visualizations, or apply spatial effects (such as
panning). Check out [how to profile the performance of Web Audio apps] in Chrome
as well.

## 3. Do you want to receive input events from this device? {: #input }

If so, try listening for [Keyboard] and [Pointer] events. If this device is a
game controller, use the [Gamepad] API to know which buttons are being pressed
and which axes moved.

## 4. Is this device an NFC tag? {: #nfc }

Then, try [Web NFC] to read and write to this device when it's in close
proximity to the user's device (usually 5-10 cm, 2-4 inches).

> 

Reviewer: A few other types of devices to include here are storage devices (File System Access API), printers (window.print()), network adapters (fetch()) and authenticators (WebAuthn).

Author: I didn't know about network adapters ;)

|| alert('This browser does not support Web Bluetooth. Try Chrome.')">
Request bluetooth device
</button>
</div>

If so, try [Web Bluetooth] to connect to this device over a Bluetooth Low Energy
connection. It should be pretty easy to communicate with when it uses
standardized Bluetooth GATT services (such as the battery service) as their
behavior is [well-documented]. If not, at this point, you either have to find
some hardware documentation for this device or reverse-engineer it. See the
[Reverse-Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb] article from Uri Shaked for an
example on how to do that.

## 6. Does this device expose HID interfaces? {: #hid }

Click the button below and see if you can spot a HID device that may be of
interest to you. Note that security-sensitive HID devices (such as FIDO HID
devices used for stronger authentication) are not accessible in Chrome.

<div class="w-text--center">
<button class="w-button w-button--secondary w-button--with-icon"
data-icon="videogame_asset" onclick="navigator?.hid?.requestDevice({ filters: [] })
|| alert('This browser does not support WebHID. Try Chrome on desktop.')">
Request HID device

> </button>

Reviewer: As cute as this is a device appearing in the chooser doesn't always mean that it is accessible. Tools like chrome://bluetooth-internals and https://webhid-collections.glitch.me/ can be really helpful for exploring what is actually possible a device.

clear documentation for this device and what USB commands this device supports,
it's really hard **but** still possible with lucky guessing. Watch [Exploring
WebUSB and its exciting potential] talk from Suz Hinton for instance. With tools
like [Wireshark], you can also reverse-engineer this device by capturing raw USB
traffic to understand it better.

## 8. Does this device expose serial ports? {: #serial }

Click the button below and see if you can spot a serial port that may be of
interest to you.

<div class="w-text--center">
<button class="w-button w-button--secondary w-button--with-icon"
data-icon="developer_board" onclick="navigator?.serial?.requestPort({ filters: [] })
|| alert('This browser does not support the Serial API. Try Chrome on desktop.')">
Request serial port
</button>
</div>

If so, try the [Serial API] to read from and write to this device. Without clear
vendor documentation for this device though, you'll need some dedicated tools to
help you inspect serial traffic and understand it.

## Acknowledgements {: #helpful }

Thank you to [Reilly Grant](https://github.com/reillyeon) and [Thomas

> Steiner](/authors/thomassteiner/) for reviewing this article.

Author: Joe didn't yet.

---
title: Accessing hardware devices on the web
subhead: |
  Pick the appropriate API to communicate with a hardware device of your choice.
description: |

>   Pick the appropriate API to communicate with a hardware device of your choice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This article helps Web developers pick the right hardware API based on a given device.
```

authors:
  - beaufortfrancois
date: 2021-01-15
updated: 2021-01-15
hero: hero.jpg
thumbnail: thumbnail.jpg
alt: A woman sitting in front of a wooden desk photo.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - capabilities
  - devices
---

My goal is to help you, web developer, pick the appropriate API to communicate

> with a hardware device of your choice (e.g. a webcam, a microphone, a mouse, a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with a hardware device of your choice (e.g., a webcam, a microphone, a mouse, a
```

keyboard, a stylus, an NFC tag, a Bluetooth device, or an exotic hardware
device).

There are many APIs to choose from. By answering a few questions on this device, you
should find out the API to use and have some documentation to get started
accessing this device.

## 1. Do you want to access video stream from this device? {: #video }

> If so, use [MediaDevices.getUserMedia()] to get a live video stream from this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If so, use [`MediaDevices.getUserMedia()`] to get a live video stream from this
```

Author: Done.

> device and learn about [capturing video]. You can also [control camera pan,
> tilt, zoom], and other camera settings such as [brightness & contrast], and even

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
device and learn about [capturing video]. You can also [control the camera's pan,
tilt, and zoom], and other camera settings such as [brightness and contrast], and even
```

Author: Done.

[take still images].

> ## 2. Do you want to access audio stream from this device? {: #audio }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 2. Do you want to access audio streams from this device? {: #audio }
```

Author: Done.

> Then, use [MediaDevices.getUserMedia()] to get a live audio stream from this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If so, use [`MediaDevices.getUserMedia()`] to get a live audio stream from this
```

Author: Done

device and learn about [capturing audio]. You can also use [Web Audio] to add

> effects to audio, create audio visualizations, apply spatial effects (such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
effects to audio, create audio visualizations, or apply spatial effects (such as
```

Author: Done.

panning). Check out [how to profile the performance of Web Audio apps] in Chrome
as well.

## 3. Do you want to receive input events from this device? {: #input }

> If so, try listening to [Keyboard] and [Pointer] events. If this device is a game

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If so, try listening for [Keyboard] and [Pointer] events. If this device is a game
```

Author: Done.

> controller, use the [Gamepad] API to know which buttons and axes are being
> pressed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
controller, use the [Gamepad] API to know which buttons are being pressed and which axes moved.
```

Author: Done.

## 4. Is this device an NFC tag? {: #nfc }

Then, try [Web NFC] to read and write to this device when it's in close
proximity to the user's device (usually 5-10 cm, 2-4 inches).

## 5. Is this a Bluetooth device? {: #bluetooth }

Click the button below and see if you can spot a nearby Bluetooth device that
may be of interest to you. Note that this device may need to be in a special
mode to be visible.

<div class="w-text--center">
<button class="w-button w-button--secondary w-button--with-icon"
data-icon="bluetooth" onclick="navigator?.bluetooth?.requestDevice({ acceptAllDevices:true })
|| alert('This browser does not support Web Bluetooth. Try Chrome.')">
Request bluetooth device

> </button>

Reviewer 2: I love it! I wonder if it will survive the web.dev team's review.

Author: :D

Reviewer: Where I am there are so many devices in the local environment it is a little hard to interpret the results. I would point developers at a larger article that explains how to use chrome://bluetooth-internals and/or the nRF Connect app for Bluetooth discovery and reverse engineering.

Reviewer 3: In general I prefer for these to be part of an iframe embed (glitch or codepen).

</div>

If so, try [Web Bluetooth] to connect to this device over a Bluetooth Low Energy
connection. It should be pretty easy to communicate with when it uses
standardized Bluetooth GATT services (such as the battery service) as their

> behaviour is [well-documented]. If not, at this point, you either have to find

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
behavior is [well-documented]. If not, at this point, you either have to find
```

Author: Done

> some hardware documentation for this device or reverse engineer it. See the [Reverse
> Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb] article from Uri Shaked for an example on how to do that.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
some hardware documentation for this device or reverse-engineer it. See the [Reverse-Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb] article from Uri Shaked for an example on how to do that.
```

Author: Done.

Request USB device
</button>
</div>

If so, try [WebUSB] to communicate with this device over the USB port. Without
clear documentation for this device and what USB commands this device supports,
it's really hard **but** still possible with lucky guessing. Watch [Exploring
WebUSB and its exciting potential] talk from Suz Hinton for instance. With tools
like [Wireshark], you can also reverse-engineer this device by capturing raw USB
traffic to understand it better.

## 8. Does this device expose serial ports? {: #serial }

Click the button below and see if you can spot a serial port that may be of
interest to you.

<div class="w-text--center">
<button class="w-button w-button--secondary w-button--with-icon"
data-icon="developer_board" onclick="navigator?.serial?.requestPort({ filters: [] })
|| alert('This browser does not support the Serial API. Try Chrome on desktop.')">
Request serial port
</button>
</div>

If so, try the [Serial API] to read from and write to this device. Without clear
vendor documentation for this device though, you'll need some dedicated tools to
help you inspect serial traffic and understand it.

## Acknowledgements {: #helpful }

> Thank you to [Reilly Grant](https://github.com/reillyeon) for review of this article.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Thank you to [Reilly Grant](https://github.com/reillyeon) for the review of this article.
```

Author: I've added you.

> <span>Photo by <a
> href="https://unsplash.com/@darya_tryfanava?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Darya
> Tryfanava</a> on <a
> href="https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=creditCopyText">Unsplash</a></span>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Photo by [Darya Tryfanava](https://unsplash.com/@darya_tryfanava) on [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/).
```

Add the deeplink to the photo, for whatever reason the Unsplash widget only links to the photographer.

Author: Done.

> [MediaDevices.getUserMedia()]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`MediaDevices.getUserMedia()`]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MediaDevices/getUserMedia
```

Author: Done

[capturing video]: https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/getusermedia/intro/

> [control camera pan, tilt, zoom]: /camera-pan-tilt-zoom/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[control the camera's pan, tilt, and zoom]: /camera-pan-tilt-zoom/
```

Author: Done

> [brightness & contrast]: https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/12/imagecapture

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[brightness and contrast]: https://developers.google.com/web/updates/2016/12/imagecapture
```

Author: Done

[take still images]: https://beaufortfrancois.github.io/sandbox/image-capture/playground
[capturing audio]: https://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/getusermedia/intro/
[Web Audio]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Audio_API
[how to profile the performance of Web Audio apps]: /profiling-web-audio-apps-in-chrome/
[Keyboard]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/KeyboardEvent
[Pointer]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Pointer_events
[Gamepad]: /gamepad/
[Web NFC]: /nfc/
[Web Bluetooth]: /bluetooth/
[well-documented]: https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/gatt/

> [Reverse Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb]: https://urish.medium.com/reverse-engineering-a-bluetooth-lightbulb-56580fcb7546

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Reverse-Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb]: https://urish.medium.com/reverse-engineering-a-bluetooth-lightbulb-56580fcb7546
```

Author: Done

## 🧱 Discover how to communicate with your device {: #discover }

The decision of what low-level API you should use is determined by the nature of
your physical connection to the device. If it is wireless, check out Web NFC for
very short-range wireless connections and Web Bluetooth for nearby wireless
devices.

- With [Web NFC], read and write to this device when it's in close proximity to
  the user's device (usually 5–10 cm, 2–4 inches). Tools like [NFC TagInfo by
  NXP] allow you to browse the content of this device for reverse-engineering
  purposes.

- With [Web Bluetooth], connect to this device over a Bluetooth Low Energy
  connection. It should be pretty easy to communicate with when it uses
  standardized Bluetooth GATT services (such as the battery service) as their
  behavior is [well-documented]. If not, at this point, you either have to find
  some hardware documentation for this device or reverse-engineer it. You can
  use external tools like [nRF Connect for Mobile] and built-in browser tools
  such as the internal page `about://bluetooth-internals` in Chromium-based
  browsers for that. Check out [Reverse-Engineering a Bluetooth Lightbulb] from

>   Uri Shaked. Note that HID and serial devices may also be using Bluetooth.

Reviewer: The intention of this note is to let developers know that they may want to check out the WebHID or Web Serial APIs, even for Bluetooth devices. Maybe reversing this sentence (i.e. "Note that Bluetooth devices may also speak the HID or serial protocols.") would make that clearer.
